in the world have been metamorphosed to the point where their origin is indiscernible without laboratory analysis. These processes can occur in stages. In many places, the Grand Canyon in the southwestern United States being a very visible example, the lower rock units were metamorphosed and deformed, and then deformation ended and the upper, undeformed units were deposited. Although any amount of rock emplacement and rock deformation can occur, and they can occur any number of times, these concepts provide a guide to understanding the geological history of an area. == Investigative methods == Geologists use a number of fields, laboratory, and numerical modeling methods to decipher Earth history and to understand the processes that occur on and inside the Earth. In typical geological investigations, geologists use primary information related to petrology (the study of rocks), stratigraphy (the study of sedimentary layers), and structural geology (the study of positions of rock units and their deformation). In many cases, geologists study modern soils, rivers, landscapes, and glaciers; investigate past and current life and biogeochemical pathways, and use geophysical methods to investigate the subsurface. Sub-specialities of geology may distinguish endogenous and exogenous geology. === Field methods === Geological field work varies depending on the task at hand. Typical fieldwork could consist of: Geological mapping Structural mapping: identifying the locations of major rock units and the faults and folds that led to their placement there. Stratigraphic mapping: pinpointing the locations of sedimentary facies (lithofacies and biofacies) or the mapping of isopachs of equal thickness of sedimentary rock Surficial mapping: recording the locations of soils and surficial deposits Surveying of topographic features compilation of topographic maps Work to understand change across landscapes, including: Patterns of erosion and deposition River-channel change through migration and avulsion Hillslope processes Subsurface mapping through geophysical methods These methods include: