=== In the late 2010s, graphics processing units (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized TensorFlow software had replaced previously used central processing unit (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic) machine learning models' training. Specialized programming languages such as Prolog were used in early AI research, but general-purpose programming languages like Python have become predominant. The transistor density in integrated circuits has been observed to roughly double every 18 months—a trend known as Moore's law, named after the Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, who first identified it. Improvements in GPUs have been even faster, a trend sometimes called Huang's law, named after Nvidia co-founder and CEO Jensen Huang. == Applications == AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including: search engines (such as Google Search) targeting online advertisements recommendation systems (offered by Netflix, YouTube or Amazon) driving internet traffic targeted advertising (AdSense, Facebook) virtual assistants (such as Siri or Alexa) autonomous vehicles (including drones, ADAS and self-driving cars) automatic language translation (Microsoft Translator, Google Translate) facial recognition (Apple's FaceID or Microsoft's DeepFace and Google's FaceNet) image labeling (used by Facebook, Apple's Photos and TikTok). The deployment of AI may be overseen by a chief automation officer (CAO). === Health and medicine === It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research. AlphaFold 2 (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D structure of a protein. In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria. In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for Parkinson's disease drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds