is a science. However, in practice, mathematicians are typically grouped with scientists, and mathematics shares much in common with the physical sciences. Like them, it is falsifiable, which means in mathematics that, if a result or a theory is wrong, this can be proved by providing a counterexample. Similarly as in science, theories and results (theorems) are often obtained from experimentation. In mathematics, the experimentation may consist of computation on selected examples or of the study of figures or other representations of mathematical objects (often mind representations without physical support). For example, when asked how he came about his theorems, Gauss once replied "durch planmässiges Tattonieren" (through systematic experimentation). However, some authors emphasize that mathematics differs from the modern notion of science by not relying on empirical evidence. === Pure and applied mathematics === Until the 19th century, there was no clear distinction between pure and applied mathematics as understood today. The distinction between developing mathematics for its own sake or for its applications was rather fluid: natural numbers and arithmetic were introduced for the need of counting, and geometry was motivated by surveying, architecture, and astronomy, but both subjects quickly stood on their own. Later, Isaac Newton used infinitesimal calculus in part to help explain the movement of the planets and his law of gravitation. Moreover, since antiquity, most mathematicians were also scientists, and many scientists were also mathematicians. Nonetheless, the Western tradition of pure mathematics traces its roots back to Ancient Greece. The problem of integer factorization, for example, which goes back to Euclid in 300 BC, had no practical application before its use in the RSA cryptosystem, now widely used for the security of computer networks. In the 19th century, mathematicians such as Karl Weierstrass and Richard Dedekind increasingly focused their research on internal problems, that is,