in income and employment is driven by public and private investments that reduce carbon emissions and pollution, enhance energy and resource efficiency, and prevent the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services. A gig economy is one in which short-term jobs are assigned or chosen on-demand. The global economy refers to humanity's economic system or systems overall. An informal economy is neither taxed nor monitored by any form of government. A local economy is an economy centred around a particular settlement or commercial area, and may be a driver for local purchasing being promoted and practiced in its area. === Sectors === The economy may be considered as having developed through the following phases or degrees of precedence: The ancient economy was mainly based on subsistence farming. The Industrial Revolution phase lessened the role of subsistence farming, converting it to more extensive and mono-cultural forms of agriculture in the last three centuries. The economic growth took place mostly in mining, construction and manufacturing industries. Commerce became more significant due to the need for improved exchange and distribution of produce throughout the community. In the economies of modern consumer societies phase there is a growing part played by services, finance, and technology—the knowledge economy. In modern economies, these phase precedences are somewhat differently expressed by the three-sector model: Primary: Involves the extraction and production of raw materials, such as corn, coal, wood and iron. Secondary: Involves the transformation of raw or intermediate materials into goods e.g. manufacturing steel into cars, or textiles into clothing. Tertiary: Involves the provision of services to consumers and businesses, such as baby-sitting, cinema and banking. Other sectors of the developed community include: the public sector or state sector (which usually includes: parliament, law-courts and government centers, various emergency services, public health, shelters for impoverished and threatened people,