as implicit equations, often polynomial equations (which spawned algebraic geometry). Analytic geometry also makes it possible to consider Euclidean spaces of higher than three dimensions. In the 19th century, mathematicians discovered non-Euclidean geometries, which do not follow the parallel postulate. By questioning that postulate's truth, this discovery has been viewed as joining Russell's paradox in revealing the foundational crisis of mathematics. This aspect of the crisis was solved by systematizing the axiomatic method, and adopting that the truth of the chosen axioms is not a mathematical problem. In turn, the axiomatic method allows for the study of various geometries obtained either by changing the axioms or by considering properties that do not change under specific transformations of the space. Today's subareas of geometry include: Projective geometry, introduced in the 16th century by Girard Desargues, extends Euclidean geometry by adding points at infinity at which parallel lines intersect. This simplifies many aspects of classical geometry by unifying the treatments for intersecting and parallel lines. Affine geometry, the study of properties relative to parallelism and independent from the concept of length. Differential geometry, the study of curves, surfaces, and their generalizations, which are defined using differentiable functions. Manifold theory, the study of shapes that are not necessarily embedded in a larger space. Riemannian geometry, the study of distance properties in curved spaces. Algebraic geometry, the study of curves, surfaces, and their generalizations, which are defined using polynomials. Topology, the study of properties that are kept under continuous deformations. Algebraic topology, the use in topology of algebraic methods, mainly homological algebra. Discrete geometry, the study of finite configurations in geometry. Convex geometry, the study of convex sets, which takes its importance from its applications in optimization. Complex geometry, the geometry obtained by replacing real numbers with complex numbers. === Algebra === Algebra is